Now that we get the basics of navigation and routing in next apps set I want to dive into two other
important concepts that Knox gives you out of the box when it comes to its pages.
The first one is validation.
That also leads us to something very import which will dive in in a second.
Q The difference between pages and normal components which we're not really using right now but there
was one pre-created for this project.
Now the difference is the page of components here are essentially loaded as root pages for given you
are else you would then dump in components re-usable components into any of these pages just as normal
building blocks which are of course still want to use.
Since you don't want to put your entire logic just into these few pages files that would defeat the
main purpose of view which is about creating small reusable components the pages components However
don't just get rendered when you visit a certain you are l.
That's the biggest difference but not the only one.
They also got some special properties in the view object but people do get all the default view object
properties like here in the index that you follow or you see where registering this pre defined logo
component.
Now you also saw in the index that you fall in the Users folder we use to data property or in a component
actually in its method methods form.
We add at the Meffert property and you could use computed you could access the lifecycle looks like
created or mounded you can access all the default value properties you have on you components because
these are normal view components however.
Next James also understands some extra properties in these objects you define as components.
These extra properties will be ignored by the future.
Yes but actually as can do something with them.
For example route validation.
Let's say here in the user's ID route where we have a dynamic parameter.
Let's say you want to validate that parameter so that not anything we enter after slash users leads
to that route.
Maybe our valid IDs are numbers.
So entering slash users slash something cool shouldn't yield that page here.
Let's add the script section to that index dot view component file in the nested route here in the dynamic
route and let's add a special property the valid date property value date actually is a method where
you get some argument let's name it data for now.
Now let's simply console log data and important.
Let's return true for now.
I'll come back to what this does in a second.
Now let's save all files and go back to our application that's open the developer tools.
And let's now enter it for a year and Id That's stick load user.
And now what you see is this is the object that gets printed and of course we load that route.
So validate was executed.
That is one important takeaway.
Otherwise this object wouldn't be printed here because we do print and invalidate validate is a special
Meffert next to us executes before rendering a route.
And as you see this object has information about the route parameters potential query parameters and
a potential US store which we don't have right now let's ignore it but parents allow us to access the
parents which were entered and allows us to validate them.
And that's the whole idea.
So here we can access return data parents ID equals one.
And now this page should only be a loadable if we entered an ID of one and exactly one.
So if we go back and I enter this actually it fails.
Now the reason for this is simple if you enter something into the you or else here it's treated as a
string.
But here I'm old checking for type equality.
So if we simply used two equal signs it should work again.
For reload the page again it works.
If I enter to here as an ID though it fails and we get that 4 or 4 arrow page next gives us.
So that is what's happening here.
We can validate the incoming ID.
And of course we could use some rechecks here.
We could simply check if our entire ID is actually a number.
So we have this Retic index we can test data Perrin's ID and we returned a result of that test which
is true if the ID is a valid number.
So if we save this and we reload we can access ID to ID 22.
But if I enter something so some text which is not a number I get the 404 error page.
This can be really useful and allows you to ensure that only valid dynamic segments reach a given you
are l.
Now there was one important thing about routes and pages which I wanted to inform you about and that
is that you can nest pages into each other.
Let me show you what I mean in the next lecture.